# Here we go again
This is technically my second attempt at making a personal homepage. Well- less "personal" actually. The first one was too ugly even though it was more "complete"... and I lost some parts of it. I could swear it was in my laptop; but when I checked, it seemed like it went back in time. It is what it is. "Don't cry over a spoiled milk".

Grim intro for my "first" blog. Also technically not my first since that's also gone. I store my blogs in md files in the project folder... and nowhere else (for now :3). This one will be more brief than that.

As of now, I'm writing this blog before finishing the rest of the site. So some stuff written in here related to the site may or may not be accurate.

## Anyway, welcome!
Welcome to my humble (and slightly rushed) site. A lot of things are self-explanatory. 

The home page is just a home page... "John Homepage". You can download my CV there if you're interested. If the download takes a quite a while, then my future self must have implemented a super secure way to send you my CV (it's just decrypting with a fixed key that you can probably find if you look hard enough). You can also find a redirection to my GitHub and LinkedIn there.

The blogs page is where I post my rambles which may or may not include informative write-ups and something akin to diary. I'll likely keep it IT-centric. Please look forward to my "Diary of a Wimpy Skid" series there :3 I'll be sharing my journey through the windows internals jungles with barely any knowledge on low-level system (I literally just got hold of C again a few days ago, at the time of writing). Speaking of which, C is better than I thought; it does what you tell it to do. Great for low-level systems, but probably not great for higher-level ones for obvious reasons. "Barely" is relative anyway. But I do believe the series could at least be consumable since it's on the perspective of a skid (me).

The contacts page is will likely only give you my email. I would like to implement anonymized messaging, but there are some things about GitHub io pages that I need to look into. If it's working as I wanted, then great.

## Feel free to reach me
Please don't contact me if you're a scammer :) If you're a cheat developer or good with windows' technicals; I'd like to learn stuff from you. Send me a message. 