# Diary of a Wimpy Skid Ch.0
I've always wanted to go a bit lower into a system, any system. Yet I couldn't seem to find an approach that sticks to me. The stars aligned and brought several cybersecurity articles into my reach. "Wow, these are cool" was what I thought each time I read how fierce the race between the white and black hats. "Childish"? perhaps. But it was enough for me to decide that I'd take the cybersecurity approach to (eventually) learn more on how the OS (windows in this case) works. It's not a direct approach, but it's what interested me.

Since I'm coincidentally making something like a personal site, I mind as well do a write-up. Every time I successfully implemented a technique, I couldn't handle my excitement. This series would also serve as a way to contain that.

## Why do you want to "go lower"?
Sheer curiosity. My tool and expertise is pretty much diddling the computer. Simply using it isn't enough for me. I want to know my tool. There are technically a lot of things that I don't know about computers.

It's also a way for me to cope with having no friends and life :3 I'm a bit dumb when it comes to socialization. The only topic that I can talk about is computer science. So, yeah, I cover it with being a nerd.

## Why Windows?
Because most red team articles are made for Windows. So it's easier for me to search the materials. So I'll be sticking to Windows for a while.

## How much do you already know?
The series has "skid" in the title. You could say I'm basically on par with the average "John Webdev". I know almost 0 things. 

- I don't know how to read assembly. 
- I don't remember all the registers of x86. 
- I don't know what the hell is a PEB. 
- I don't know the structure of a process.
- I don't know the setup of a process.
- I often forget how many bits are in a certain primitive type.
- I don't know how to reverse engineer. Heck, I don't even know how to use the tools.
- Again, I technically don't know what a computer is.
- ...

To "know" something is a bit ambiguous. Ask the average programmer "do you know Python?" and they'll say that they can use the language. But do they know the technicals of the runtime? The optimization of the runtime? How each line is parsed? How memory in python is managed? etc. Probably not. So for this series I would only say that I "definitely know" something if I'm confident about it and can program something that manipulates it. So, you could say that I don't know anything related to IT... Man, I wish it's ok to say "I don't know" and not starve on the street; but that's life, oh well.

The list COULD go on because there are a lot of things to learn. TOO much, you could say. Maybe this is "I don't know what I don't know". I can feel that I'm missing several things to understand a multitude of things. 

## Conclusion?
Is it a waste of time? Probably. I'm not going to give a guarantee that delving this will give you a promising developer job or anything like that.. So, if you're also a John Webdev or barely know anything, take my hand and let's delve together :3 Let's act cool and trip ourselves inside our mainframe. Put on your blackest hoodie and buy the cheapest anonymous mask. Yes, pretending you're cool about it is part of journey.
