# Diary of a Wimpy Skid Ch.1
And we're back. I'm backing up my learning resource folder; so I mind as well do a write-up. I would've written this chapter specifically about retrieving function address and a bit about process structure, but I explored that 2-4 weeks ago and now I only remember the essential details. But I will do a write-up in the future about it again since I plan to rewrite my code related to it. Stay tuned ;)

I don't want to jump ahead and overwhelm a fellow skid, so let's start simple. I'll be assuming that I'm talking to an actual SKID. Hence, we'll start with **juggling with C and a bit about DLLs**.

## One more thing, season 1's goal
Let's set a goal for season 1, yeah? Let's bypass Windows Defender and inject Havoc C2. Yeah, it sounds simple; but depending on how I feel, we might do silly approaches.

Season one is about getting used to the surface level of skid dev... mostly. We'll get used to doing things in an unsafe way, memory-wise. Getting used to reading Windows' documentations. Getting used to pointers, etc. Sorry if I'm inconsistent because I'm learning as well.

## Just start already!
Straight up, you'll be dealing a lot with pointers and might need to reverse engineer your own code. I haven't done reverse engineering, so I can't say much about it. So far, I debug by printing and checking whether certain strings are loaded while running the program in x64dbg. I'm well aware that I eventually have to debug better... Hell, I'm using Python to make my executable instead of Makefile (no, that's not the recommended way to help compile your program).

You can use any language you want for your code but the language I recommend for this entire series is C. I find that the best way to get used to C (not learning C) is to just use it to build something. Anything. BUT it has to be something low-level. You want to build an HTTP library from scratch? As in, FROM SCRATCH? Go ahead, that's a great way to both get used to C and learn computer technicalities. 

In my case, I've been making a way to manually retrieve function address from loaded DLLs; it can work for unloaded DLL too, I think. I'm not sure because I don't know if there's any difference between a loaded in-memory DLL and on-disk DLL.

`This is a series from a skid for skids. I WILL be open on what I don't know at the time of writing.`

Go download GCC or other C compiler. What matters is that it can compile your code and it works. I personally use GCC. As for compiling assembly, I use NASM compiler.

## Documentation?
Uh... I just search stuff up as I go. Personally, I'm already familiar with programming so I inherently know the common control flows of most language. There's no magic. I search things as I go. I don't remember how to start a server with Express.js, but I know how to find out.

There's no secret in programming. You can get away with searching basic stuff up on the spot. Here are the keywords you would usually be interested in:

`for-loop, while-loop, if-block, variable, function, pointer, library, types`

That's it. Those are the basics. "Advanced programming" is basically using your language to build something.

There are thousands of tutorials on programming languages; including on C. As I said earlier, best way to get used to a language is to use it. So I won't explain how to use it. Let's just think of this as the minimum barrier of entry :3

As for assembly, I still don't know much about it. I haven't dabbled deep enough on it yet. There are things like calling conventions that you need to keep in mind. 

## What are DLLs?
DLL stands for "dynamic link library". It's a bunch of function packed together in file that programs can use. Its purpose is exactly like the name. For example, Windows has a DLL that you can use called "ntdll.dll"; it can be used by your program to communicate with Windows.

```
Quick note for the nerds. Yes, you can instead do syscalls (system calls) to do this; entirely bypassing the need to use ntdll.dll.
```

How a program would usually use DLLs is by loading them into their process. It's somewhat like this:
1. Program calls a Windows function to load certain DLL
2. Windows loads the DLL into the program's memory
3. The function may return the base address of the DLL
4. Program wants to use function A from the loaded DLL. So program calls a Windows function to retrieve its address.
5. Program calls through the retrieved address.

You may have several questions. But I can't read your mind; so I'll clear several things up. **DO NOT WORRY** if you don't know what any of these means. We'll explore them more later. This part is for nerds who might be a bit more ahead.

```
1.
What if the DLL is already loaded into the program's memory?

Not sure. I haven't checked. We'll figure it out later :)

2.
What Windows function is called to load DLLs?

One example is LoadLibraryA(). Last time I checked, it's inside kernel32.dll.

2.1
Don't you need to load DLLs before using their function? How do you use LoadLibraryA()?

Some DLLs are automatically loaded at start of a process. ntdll.dll is one of them and (i think) kernel32.dll is also one.

3.
How do you NORMALLY get a function address from a DLL?

GetProcAddress() I think. I forgot which DLL has that function.

3.1
What happens when you request for the function address but the DLL isn't loaded?

No idea, lol. I assume the function will return 0 (NULL).

4. 
How do you "call the function through the address"?

We'll explore that in a later chapter, don't worry. If you want to know now, go ahead and read about "calling conventions". 

5.
So the desired DLL is actually in the process' memory?

Yes... I think. Your instruction pointer won't actually jump to the on-disk DLL; it will be on in-memory DLL.
```

DLLs are just that. A dense pile of exported functions. "Exported" means it's exposed in such a way that it's easy for host program to use them.

## Conclusion
You don't have to use C, technically. Languages are just tools. They're just a way for you to talk to your magic metal box. You're free to use C#, Nim, Gleam, Rust, or other languages. I recommend C because it does what you tell it to do in the assembly level (ignoring optimizations).

`What about assembly?`

You don't need to touch it for season 1, probably. For some of you, it may help in understanding what's actually happening in your code.

`I still don't understand DLL!`

Next chapter might be a short one about DLLs. I'll explain what mostly matters for skids like us.

That's all. Stay tuned, fellow skids ;)